README.md, before:

# monaco-spellchecker

This library provides a simple approach to spellchecking words in the Monaco Editor. [Try it out!](https://purocean.github.io/monaco-spellchecker/)

## Installation

```bash
npm install monaco-spellchecker
```

## Dictionary Setup Using typo-js

Please install the [typo-js](https://github.com/cfinke/Typo.js) library if you want to use it as a dictionary for spellchecking.

```bash
npm install typo-js
```

## Example

Below is an example of how to create a dictionary and use it with monaco-spellchecker:

```typescript
import * as monaco from 'monaco-editor'
import Typo from 'typo-js'
import { getSpellchecker } from 'monaco-spellchecker'
import affData from 'typo-js/dictionaries/en_US/en_US.aff?raw'
import wordsData from 'typo-js/dictionaries/en_US/en_US.dic?raw'

const editor = monaco.editor.create(/* ...existing code... */)

// Create dictionary
const dictionary = new Typo("en_US", affData, wordsData)

// Get Spell Checker
const spellchecker = getSpellchecker(monaco, editor, {
  check: (word) => dictionary.check(word),
  suggest: (word) => dictionary.suggest(word),
  ignore: (word) => {
    console.log('Ignore word:', word)
    // ...existing code...
  },
  addWord: (word) => {
    console.log('Add word:', word)
    // ...existing code...
  }
})

const process = debounce(spellchecker.process, 500)

// Process the editor content after it has been changed
editor.onDidChangeModelContent(() => {
  process()
})

// Register code action provider
monaco.languages.registerCodeActionProvider('markdown', spellchecker.codeActionProvider)
```

## API Reference

### getSpellchecker(monaco, editor, options)

Parameters:
- `monaco`: The Monaco instance.
- `editor`: The Editor instance.
- `options`: An object with the following properties:
    - `check`： Function to check if a word is spelled correctly.
    - `suggest`： Function to provide suggestions for a misspelled word.
    - `severity`： Optional severity level for the diagnostic. Default is `monaco.MarkerSeverity.Warning`.
    - `tokenize`： Optional function to tokenize the text. If not provided, the default behavior is to match `/\b[a-zA-Z']+\b/g`.
    - `ignore`： Optional function to ignore a word. If not provided, the default behavior is to hide the ignore button.
    - `addWord`： Optional function to add a word to the dictionary. If not provided, the default behavior is to hide the add button.
    - `buildHoverMessage`： Optional function to build a hover message for a misspelled word. If not provided, the default behavior is to show the word and suggestions.

Returns an object with:
1. `process()`: Re-scans the editor content for misspelled words.
2. `codeActionProvider`: A Monaco code action provider for fixing misspelled words.

Commit message:

feat: add optional language selector and dispose method to spellchecker

README.md, after:

# monaco-spellchecker

This library provides a simple approach to spellchecking words in the Monaco Editor. [Try it out!](https://purocean.github.io/monaco-spellchecker/)

## Installation

```bash
npm install monaco-spellchecker
```

## Dictionary Setup Using typo-js

Please install the [typo-js](https://github.com/cfinke/Typo.js) library if you want to use it as a dictionary for spellchecking.

```bash
npm install typo-js
```

## Example

Below is an example of how to create a dictionary and use it with monaco-spellchecker:

```typescript
import * as monaco from 'monaco-editor'
import Typo from 'typo-js'
import { getSpellchecker } from 'monaco-spellchecker'
import affData from 'typo-js/dictionaries/en_US/en_US.aff?raw'
import wordsData from 'typo-js/dictionaries/en_US/en_US.dic?raw'

const editor = monaco.editor.create(/* ...existing code... */)

// Create dictionary
const dictionary = new Typo("en_US", affData, wordsData)

// Get Spell Checker
const spellchecker = getSpellchecker(monaco, editor, {
  check: (word) => dictionary.check(word),
  suggest: (word) => dictionary.suggest(word),
  ignore: (word) => {
    console.log('Ignore word:', word)
    // ...existing code...
  },
  addWord: (word) => {
    console.log('Add word:', word)
    // ...existing code...
  }
})

const process = debounce(spellchecker.process, 500)

// Process the editor content after it has been changed
editor.onDidChangeModelContent(() => {
  process()
})

// Register code action provider
monaco.languages.registerCodeActionProvider('markdown', spellchecker.codeActionProvider)
```

## API Reference

### getSpellchecker(monaco, editor, options)

Parameters:
- `monaco`: The Monaco instance.
- `editor`: The Editor instance.
- `options`: An object with the following properties:
    - `check`： Function to check if a word is spelled correctly.
    - `suggest`： Function to provide suggestions for a misspelled word.
    - `languageSelector`： Optional Monaco language selector. Default is `*`.
    - `severity`： Optional severity level for the diagnostic. Default is `monaco.MarkerSeverity.Warning`.
    - `tokenize`： Optional function to tokenize the text. If not provided, the default behavior is to match `/\b[a-zA-Z']+\b/g`.
    - `ignore`： Optional function to ignore a word. If not provided, the default behavior is to hide the ignore button.
    - `addWord`： Optional function to add a word to the dictionary. If not provided, the default behavior is to hide the add button.
    - `buildHoverMessage`： Optional function to build a hover message for a misspelled word. If not provided, the default behavior is to show the word and suggestions.

Returns an object with:
1. `process()`: Re-scans the editor content for misspelled words.
2. `dispose()`: Disposes the spellchecker.
